I'm starting this notebook by loading in my usual data libraries.
Then I'm going to load in and unzip the energy consumption data.
This should give me one text file, household_power_consumption.txt.
I'll read in just the first few lines of the file to see how it's formatted.
Looking at the first 10 lines,
I can see that every line here is a data point,
and that each point has a date and time recorded to the minute here.
Then for each data point,
I have different features like global active power and voltage.
Each of these values are separated from one another with a semicolon.
If you examine this data,
you'll also see that there are some missing values.
So next, I'm going to preprocess the data and read it in as a dataframe.
In here, I'm actually inputting some helper functions from a file, text_preprocessing.py.
This gives me a function that creates a dataframe given this text file and a separator.
It also has a function for dealing with null values.
In fact, let's take a look at the functions in this file.
In this first function,
I can see the details of how my text file is converted into a dataframe.
Then, given a dataframe,
I'm actually going to fill any empty values with the average value in a column.
So any empty values in a column will be replaced by the average value for that feature.
This is just an alternate way of dealing with null values as opposed to dropping them.
It will be fine for doing longer term time analysis.
This gives me a dataframe full of values.
I'll print out a shape and print out the first few rows.
I can see I have a lot of data points and here are some examples.
The data is indexed by date and time and in this example,
I want to predict the Global_active_power,
which is the household minute averaged
active power in kilowatts measured across the globe.
So next, I'm getting that column by name
and displaying all of those power values in a plot.
Since the data is recorded every minute,
this plot contains a lot of values and it's pretty hard to read.
So I'm also just going to plot a slice of the data as well.
In fact, I'll display 1,440 minutes of data,
which is the number of minutes in a 24 hour day.
So here's my timestamp for midnight and
the active power globally recorded by minutes in a day.
I can see peaks at around 09:00 AM and a little later on in
the evening when it might be darker and people may be turning on more lights.
So there's a lot of data collected every
minute and I could basically go one of two ways with my analysis.
I could create many short time series,
say a weak or so long,
in which I record energy consumption every hour and try to predict
the energy consumption over the following hours or days or I could create fewer,
longer time series that I could use to predict
usage further in the future over weeks or months.
I think both tasks are interesting and with the amount of data I have,
I think it would be great to see
longer recurring trends that happen over several months or over a year.
So I'm going to resample the global active power values
recording daily data points as averages over 24 hour periods.
I can re-sample my data at a specified frequency by utilizing pandas time series tools,
which allow me to sample at specified frequencies like every hour or day,
d. So I'm resampling my current power dataframe,
passing in this frequency,
and recording the daily mean.
Then and displaying the results.
This is a lot more readable than our first plot,
and I can already see some trends that seem to occur each year.
It seems that there are spikes of
energy consumption around the end and beginning of each year,
which correspond with heat and light usage being higher in winter months.
We can also see a dip in usage around
August when global temperatures are typically higher.
The data is still not very smooth,
but it shows noticeable recurring trends which makes this a good use case for deep AR.
Next, let's turn this data into a few that deep AR can learn from.